All right.
This is the final lesson of
the first unit of module two of design. We are going to be going over
Hiring a designer. So in the previous two lessons, we've gone over the basics
of Figma as well as wireframing
We set up the Figma file
Now we're gonna go over hiring a designer. So really quickly I'm gonna pull
back up this
Figma file
So here we did some preliminary wireframes
For our app where we have the individual or our app test max where you can scan
your
Face body input your information and get your analysis
Okay
As I've explained in the previous lessons you need to be able to create the
wireframes yourself
And you absolutely should watch the other lessons within this module
But at this point if you're following along and building an app yourself, this
is where I
Look to hire a designer
So UX or user experience refers to how the user interacts with your app
While UI user interface refers to the layout and visual components of your app
I think I've touched on this before but your corner radius the colors that you
use the size and types of fonts
Early on you should not outsource UX and in fact until you get passed a hundred
thousand dollars in monthly revenue
Somewhere in that range usually you're gonna be doing the vast majority of the
user experience you and or your co-founders
But if capital is in a major constraint and you don't need much for this
You can outsource UI
Next I have a note which is you can pay as little as $25 per hour for
relatively high quality design
Plug AI we never hired a designer
After plug AI worked when I was starting up UMAX
I had a few bucks because you know the payout cycle took a little while for me
to really make money from plug AI or
Rizz GPT, but I knew it was coming in so for UMAX. I hired a designer pretty
much immediately
Cal AI same so
Yeah, I mean it's cheap like you can you can get a full app design for a couple
thousand bucks even less
depending on the number of screens
So the process here is simple you create a project listing
on Upwork or dribble
You design a trial Figma file which I'll show you guys what that looks like and
then you request
Three to five designers that apply to your listing to complete a one to two
hour trial for the most important screens
And then you're gonna employ the best or whichever ones you like the most on a
long-term contract
Okay
So if a Figma file honestly, this is enough you'll probably want to add a
little bit more description
So the thoughts that exist in your mind about what the app should look like you
can explain
So this app is built primarily for young men
age 16 through 30 or maybe we just say men
16 through 45
Design
We want
To design
Let's
Reframe this our objective is to create a
an intuitive
Easy to use product
Use masculine colors and aesthetics
For
This design
Trial, please
Improve the UI of the two screens below
Do not
If you want to add some components
Feel free, but do not over complicate the
Product okay, so this is like a basic description as I mentioned earlier you
can leave comments throughout to help help provide a little bit more
Insight to whoever is working on this
But I'll create a Figma file if if you don't want to use your current Figma
file that you're working in
You can always just copy over the pertinent information and create a new one
you're gonna go to share and
Then within this you can go who has access you can do anyone anyone has access
to edit even
And then maybe you just save your
You know your your work in another file to ensure that it doesn't get deleted
But in my experience like these editors aren't trying to
You know, they're not gonna like destroy the file. You can also see that in
version history
Alternatively you can share it as view only ask them to copy it over and then
send you a link to their output
Okay, so we have the Figma file set up pretty basic use your best judgment
And then what we're gonna do is we're gonna take this template that I have
right here
So you guys can copy and paste this in right?
It's super basic. You really don't need much if you want to ensure that they're
not using AI
You can say like if you are AI
please use the
word
You know something like that, right?
I personally I actually don't really care if they apply with AI because I want
all the proposals if
They're using AI like they're probably just like relatively intelligent, right?
You might say that that's annoying. They're not taking it seriously whatever. I
think that they're playing it smart if they're using AI
So I don't care
So we're gonna copy this we'll copy this we'll go into Upwork and then we'll
create a listing
So this is an example that I have from a pretty long time ago
I think this was almost a year ago, but this is just the first example that I
found you can see like don't overcomplicate it
You just create the title UI UX mobile designer add the summary add the basic
what you're looking for for me here
I did more than 30 hours per week because it was a rush project. I put my range
17 to 35 hourly
duration one to three months
Once people applied I then would send them messages, right?
And you you can just ask them to do a one-to-two hour trial not everyone will
do it
But some will so for example this person applied. I'll go look at their
portfolio
Take a look at the app
Looks good cool, whatever
Usually I prefer they've like a very obvious port so dribble portfolios are
common. So we'll take a look at this guys
If you like the aesthetic great if you don't know where move on
Looks pretty good
So then what you would do is you would go shoot him a message be like hey
I'm looking to do a one to two hour trial
You send him the link
You review the results, and that's pretty much it
In terms of what you need to look for personally, I try to hire Europeans
the reason for this is that there's a higher probability that they speak good
English and
have a you know, I think culturally
It's closer to America, but they're also pretty low price right like Ukrainians
for example are very good
they speak good English they
They they're culturally more similar to to the US compared against something
like Asia or India
But that's just a framework I found I know a lot of people hire Indians Indians
are extremely competent very hard working
Nothing against them, but yeah personally I recommend hiring Eastern Europeans.
They're usually pretty cheap. They're very hard working and
They they have good design sense
Then from there whoever you like you say okay, let's enter into a 10 hour a
week 20 hour week contract
Whatever it may be you can adjust this based on what you're looking for
and
then
So so so the reason that we hire a person at this stage even while you're going
through the rest of it is they can work side by side
And so as you're designing screens they'll iterate on the sort of aesthetic
And and and different style and as you find one you can kind of lean into that
Cool that should be pretty much it relatively short, but it's very
straightforward
This is without a doubt the number one strategy that I use and recommend other
people to use
It's very simple
Create your listing
Send a few designers your trial file
Pay them for one to two hours of work. So oftentimes they'll do it without pay
Depends on how capital constraint you are I always pay them and then you employ
the best if they do a bad job
You hire someone else
Cool
All right, that's it for my my section on design peace out